Jeff girth and Peter Dale Scott lead a
workshop on organized crime and the
economics of conspiracy at a three-day
conference held in Boston the first
weekend in February 1975 the conference
was sponsored by the cambridge-based
assassination information Bureau the
title of the conference the politics of
conspiracy and assassination Peter Dale
Scott is author of the war conspiracy
and has been researching links between
the assassination of John Kennedy and
figures involved in the Watergate
break-in
Jeff girth is a journalist and
investigator of corruption and corporate
and organized crime his works have
appeared in The Village Voice penthouse
and other publications
he's done extensive research into
Watergate particularly in the area of
Nixon rebozo finances here's the
workshop on organized crime and
conspiracy recorded in Boston on
February 1st 1975 Jeff I think will give
the sort of broader analysis and I
wanted to talk today more concretely
because I believe that if we look at
more at the background of Jack Ruby we
learn something about the relationship
between politics and organized crime in
this country which is helpful both to
understanding the assassination and more
particularly the role of the Warren
Commission in covering up in the wake of
the assassination but also is helpful
by studying Jack Ruby you really learn
more about the workings of American
politics in general so I think it's
worth doing and I hope that it will cast
some light on what I call the gray
alliance in this country between
politics business and organized crime
which can establish a power system and
say a city like Chicago where
came from and also as I've tried to show
in other writings in colonies of the
United States overseas in the Caribbean
for example quite you see the same kind
of gray alliance and not only that but
you find that people who are prominent
in that kind of connection in Chicago
for example actually become interested
in casino investments in Havana or
somewhere else ruby is would have been
in some ways I think important in
history even without the events in
Dallas because of his relation to the
history of organized crime in Chicago
which is however a slightly complex one
I don't pretend wholly to understand it
I see him related to two very important
events in the post-war history of
organized crime both of which had
important political and economic
consequences first of these was the
takeover of a little local of a junk
dealers Union the waste handlers Union
local 104 67 in Chicago by a man called
Paul Dorfman by coincidence it happened
to be Ruby's local and in fact ruby was
the secretary treasurer of the local who
was succeeded after a murder in the
local by Paul Dorfman and from that germ
spread outwards the the pension fund
scheme whereby the pension fund of a
other Union is used for investment
purposes and the man who became so very
prominent in the whole manipulation of
the teachers of the site Teamsters
Central States pension fund C SPF I'll
call that from now on was Paul Dorfman's
son Allen Dorfman and it's ironic that
the capsule description of the takeover
of this local 104 67 the murder of the
head of it cook
replace the takeover by Dorfman was
written up by Bobby Kennedy in the enemy
within as the beginning of the Teamster
pension fund gimmick and it just
happened that ruby was there and was the
chief witness to the murder and if you
read about that murder in the Chicago
Tribune way back in 1939 what they know
about it is what they learned from
somebody called Jack Rubenstein who is
our man Jack Ruby that was an important
event and the other event which was
perhaps even more important was the the
the takeover or the leech the the
struggle over the racing wire service
which had been put together yes well
show you how the report deals with it
and show you what a really knowing in
the hearings is there anything about
Jack Ruby's background in Chicago later
today well I wish I had volume 15 we
could look up Dorfman in the index my
memory is that it's not in the 15
volumes of the hearings it is in the 11
volumes of the appendix which are not
indexed the exhibit yes right there is
actually the FB there is a among the
exhibits and it's all in volume 22 there
is an FBI interview of Paul Dorfman and
is a very misleading one and an even
more misleading summary of it in the
report which I can give you if you're
interested it the significant thing is
that the Warren Report could not deal
candidly and honestly with this
relationship of ruby to an important
event in the history of organized crime
because I believe the kind of lawyers
who have been
together to staff the Water Commission
and the many of the members of the
Commission themselves were themselves
too intimately related to this same kind
of gray Alliance system in this country
to be able to stand out of it outside of
it and look at it disinterested ly and
call a spade a spade they certainly
could one of the worst chapters in the
Warren Report is the appendix which
deals with the with the life history of
Jack Ruby it's it's just funny when you
read it annoying the real facts to see
how paper-thin it is let me give the the
other event where Ruby again may have
been rather intimately connected there
is a also in volume 22 there's an FBI
interview of a man called Dave Harris
whom they don't identify they just give
us they just say where they interviewed
him and all it says is that the iris and
now quote from the report claims that
Sparky now that's Jack Ruby knew Lenny
Patrick like he that to say Yaris knows
Lenny Patrick but Sparky was positively
on his own and not outfit connected not
connected to the mob and then it goes on
to say Sparky was a Romeo who was most
successful in picking up girls well the
report used a bit of that FBI
interviewed used the part that ruby was
a Romeo that's the only part they used
they didn't tell you who Yaris was they
didn't tell you who Patrick was Ruby
knew both of them as well as they knew
each other well Yaris and Patrick were
two members of the mob in Chicago who
were arrested for the murder of James
Reagan and the in the fight for the
control of the wire service in 1946
after World War Two and these were two
men who were indicted but the case
against them was dropped why was it
dropped because one or maybe even two
witnesses were killed in very short
order
the police the policeman who tried to
prosecute them was fired from the police
force and when the Kefauver committee
came to Chicago that the policemen came
around to a lawyer called Lewis Kutner
who I'll say a bit more about in a
second
said he had some new information about
the about the Reagan killing he drove
home from the lawyer's office to his own
house and was struck down in shot dead
in his own garage and so the whole case
is still never being solved but
something is very clear and that is that
Yaris and Patrick at least knew each
other very well
ruby was part of that background and the
whole matter was never pursued well most
of us have forgotten that right after
the Kennedy assassination
Lewis Kutner came forward and said that
he had known Ruby and that in fact he
had been the go-between between Jack
Ruby and the Kefauver committee and that
is something which definitely ought to
have been pursued and wasn't in fact I
would I went to the archives myself the
first thing I did was to get the
archives name file on Lewis Kutner and
there is one and only one FBI interview
of Kuttner in there is about four lines
long it's a week after the assassination
and it says that Lewis Kutner were
advised telephonically that he had
nothing to add to what he had already
told the FBI in his first interview and
that there was no point in pursuing the
matter further that's the only FBI
interview in the archives and for Lewis
Kutner we tried to find out where the
first FBI interview was and if it ever
even reached the Warren Commission as
far as we can make out it never reached
the Warren Commission if indeed the FBI
made a written
note of it but all this could be
terribly important because of the
importance of the struggle over the wire
service for organized crime and I'm just
going to read something on this respect
did you all know roughly where the
racing wire service is a little bookie
shops all over the country and they have
to know the latest information about the
races and they have to know what the
odds are and all of this information
comes in by the wire service and it's
become a monopoly and really so if you
don't buy the wire service from these
people you don't know what's going on so
you have to buy it and it's become a
kind of private tax on the bookie
industry in this country and in fact the
latest government study of organized
crime one of the recent Commission's
really calls it a kind of extortion
racket because these people have to pay
exorbitant rates for the wire service
whether they really want it or not and a
man called Rufus King who knows quite a
lot about these things says that the
control over the struggle over the
control for the wire service in 1946
when Reagan was killed by the Chicago
mob was a struggle for really the
control of what I would call the gray
alliance let me see it show you how he
spells that out and this is all of this
is Rufus King who is frequently a
government expert at organized crime
hearings following the murder of James
II Reagan of Continental Press in 1946
into the center of the spider's web
moved Tony Accardo
and greasy thumb guzik the heirs of Al
Capone from Chicago with satellite gang
overlords joining them from every crime
center in the country to attribute half
the gang killings and mob violence of
the 40s and 50s to battles over control
of this gambling empire would be a very
conservative speculation whoever
controlled the wire service drops in a
town became master of gambling
activities there and more often than not
he also responsibly controlled
and the word is responsibly chosen he
also controls are not responsibly
control he also controlled the word is
responsibly chosen controlled the
community's local law enforcement
agencies you control the police and then
he explains why in the next sentence no
one could run a substantial book without
the wire service and once you've got the
patrolman and is lieutenant and is
captain and the Chiefs taking bribes
from your organization for protection of
a harmless little gambling Enterprise
you have got them for all purposes I
hope you understand how that works you
see you've got these little local
bookies and they've got a friendly
relationship with the cop and it all
looks very innocent the cop takes a
bribe but also the precinct captain has
to take a bribe and in the end the chief
or somebody up near the end of it is on
the take as well and once you got them
on the take you have got them they
cannot turn around and expose you
because you can expose them and there
are many kinds of testimony that at
least in the late 40s when ruby moved
down to Dallas that was the situation in
Dallas at the later McClellan hearings
talk about local judges on the take a
witness in the assassination a man
called Paul Roland Jones who had come
down there was a the Chicago mob moved
into Dallas just the time that ruby
himself moved down into Dallas
and he talked about how there were
payoffs to the County authorities
through a law firm called Erlin and
Irwin he didn't name the law firm he
said TK Irwin who was the senior partner
of the law firm very interesting to find
that in 1962 one of the members of this
family law firm Ivan a one was a lawyer
for a man called Pete white who ought to
have been a prime suspect or at least
witness in the investigation and never
was Pete white was a lawyer who had
fix things up for Ruby in 1954 had got
Ruby out of a liquor violation in his
nightclub admitted this frankly that he
had been Ruby's lawyer and Pete white
had also admitted that he had run into
Ruby a couple of days before the
assassination although nothing was said
about this but for some reason in 1964
Pete White has a new law partner or at
least a new man sharing his law office
and sharing his telephone man called
William a Mackenzie who is William a
Mackenzie marina Oswald's lawyer and a
friend of Robert Possible's
and here was this commission looking all
over the place for a connection between
Ruby and Oswald and they looked and they
looked and they looked and they never
saw that Ruby's old lawyers still in
contact with him was sharing an office
with the man who became marina Oswald's
lawyer so for this reason the telephone
number of marinas lawyer RI one one two
nine five was in one of the Ruby
notebooks that they were going through
so closely I think they knew what was
going on because they had one witness up
there they went through the whole
notebook and they asked him about 50
names and telephone numbers and when
they came to the name and telephone
number of Pete white ri1 one two nine
five they skipped they went right over
it and went straight to the next number
all that most of the other names were
junk names but this really interesting
name was never asked what I suspect from
all this is that there was a kind of fix
on in Dallas and that Ruby was at least
that Pete white and the Irwin's were
connected to it and that ruby in his own
way was connected to it I have been
focusing on the fact that Ruby is around
the scene for important events in
organized in the history of organized
crime but I'm not saying that he was
simply a member of organized crime I
suspect that it's quite possible in a
way his position was not as easily
definable as that that he may have
kind of go-between between organized
crime on the one side and the Dallas
police law enforcement and authorities
on the other the fact it's one of the
things that's so funny
about the reports treatment of Ruby is
that they talk about him as somebody who
showed an extreme interest in police
activities and they let it go is that we
have it right in Lee has sworn testimony
in volume 13 that that one of the
placement regarded are quoted to you
that he regarded Jack Ruby as a source
of information in connection with his
investigatory activities that is a
detective Aberhart speaking it's very
interesting comes from the special
services Bureau and the police force
which I think was the key element to
look at because they're the vice squad
in the narcotics squad
they are the subversive activities
people they would watch for what Cubans
we're doing and Friends of Castro all of
that in one area and protection of very
important personages like president's
when they come to Dallas you do all the
protective intelligence for that so I
think the SSB were prime suspects and
this man Aberhart who regarded ruby as a
source of information was in the
narcotics field and i do believe i don't
have time to tell you now maybe in
questions later that i think that ruby
may have been an informant in the
narcotics area for the dallas police and
also possibly for the Federal Bureau of
Narcotics in those days and that then we
would really begin to see some of the
really interesting overlaps between what
happened in Dallas what happened in
Watergate I'll take one question but
Jeff should really speak can you wait
till Jeff is spoken I don't think I have
anything more to say but you see my
point was to suggest to you that there
is a kind of connection there that
ruby was not an insignificant personage
in this kind of connection that events
in Chicago years ago were important to
Dallas because the Chicago mob had moved
down there just when Mubi moved down in
the post-war years and now finally I
didn't have time to lay it all out to
you but a man who's very important in
the Chicago connection is an
industrialist called Henry Crown in fact
grew Pearson's memoirs says that he had
heard that the people who really
profited from the from the murder of
James E Reagan he names them I'll just
quote what he says so that it can sue
his estate for liable and not me that
the I learned that the whole assassinate
the killing of Reagan pointed to the
Hilton Hotel chain Henry Crowne who was
a shareholder and director of the in the
Hilton Empire was then Henry Crowne the
big Jewish financier in Chicago and
Walter Annenberg the RIT man who
originally put the son of the man who
originally put the wire service together
okay let's like we could say an awful
lot about Henry Crowne about the fact
that in 63 he was the largest
shareholder in General Dynamics at the
time of that controversial tf-x
contract that tied in with the Bobby
Baker scandals which would bring us back
to Bedford Winn who I was talking about
last night but let's just say one thing
about Henry crown he had a lawsuit on in
63 64 over control of his own corporate
his own corporation who was his lawyer
at that time am I gonna get a block here
who was his lawyer
Albert Jenner who is Albert Jenner
Warren Commission staff who was
specifically in the charge of seeing if
there was any conspiracy so that's why I
suggest to you that the gray Alliance
was at work not only in the politics of
Chicago and Dallas but it was also at
work on the national level and that if
you were to go to what lawyers like
Albert Jenner and I
go through the whole staff if you like
there was a former Murchison lawyer
there it's incredible how they staffed
that thing these were not the people to
come forward and say look there's a
great lie a great alliance at work in
this country there is an unhealthy
alliance between politics economics and
organized crime we had to go somewhere
else to hear that kind of information
and luckily one of the people who knows
most about it in the country is sitting
right beside me here at Jeff Kurtz so
let's let him say a bit more about this
sort of thing I think the best way to
begin is maybe to talk about that there
definitely was a motive for their being
organized crime involvement their debt
there definitely was a motive for their
being organized crime involvement in the
assassination and in more than one
assassination and I think to put it
succinctly
the Attorney General a Bobby Kennedy was
undertaking the most exhaustive
investigation and prosecution of
organized crime that was ever done in
this country arising and part out of his
work as counsel for the McClellan
committee where he came into firsthand
contact with okay
Bobby Kennedy was was out after
organized crime which he defined as the
enemy within in his book and there's
there's very clear evidence that the the
Kennedy Justice Department was making
serious inroads they had targeted a
number of major leading figures and were
in the process of sending them out of
the country sending them to jail and
breaking up a criminal organization and
it's more than interesting to note that
within a week after the assassination
when and I remember Bobby Kennedy was
still Attorney General although of
course his brother was no longer
president a special unit within the
Justice Department began to investigate
the assassination and the first place
they went was to organized crime and
I've seen the memos and I've talked to
the person who had at the investigation
it was clear in the minds of many
Kennedy people that there was
significant organized crime both motive
and involvement in the assassination and
of course later a number of years later
there surfaced the report of a teamster
official in Puerto Rico who was sent to
assassinate Bobby Kennedy and only to
the intervention of Jimmy Hoffa did did
that attempt get called off and that's
in a yeah a book to fallen rise at Jimmy
Hoffa by Walter Sherrod a I guess the
best way to start is there's a lot of
talk right now about the notion of
petrol dollars and that there's all of a
sudden there's surplus money in the
International money markets because of
surplus revenues to the oil-producing
countries and I think that's a good
analogy to organized crime because if we
go back 20 30 maybe 40 years we'll be
able to discern that organized crime
starting in prohibition
and going up through black markets of
World War two and all kind of other
operations which they engage in we're
generating incredible sums of Revenue
government estimates which are basically
conservative and based on incomplete
data put the figures at twenty to thirty
billion dollars a year all of which of
course is invisible untaxed some of
which of course goes to payoffs and
protection and and to people but most of
which goes out of the country and is
washed and laundered and recycled back
into the economic money markets of the
world now if you take those figures and
start to add them up and compound them
because the money doesn't sit still it
gets reinvested and the return is you
know ten fifteen twenty percent and
within ten fifteen twenty years you come
up with figures that I estimated this
once and I don't have the article I did
in front of me but you come up with a
sum of money that's total that's greater
than the ten largest corporations in the
United States put together so we're
talking about a lot of money you know
hundreds of billions of dollars that
that is is continually being reinvested
and washed and put into investments and
and so we're talking about a large
economic empire and you can't talk about
organized crime without talking about it
as a financial empire because that's
what it is now
I think the best way to go on from there
is to demonstrate where this money is
gone and what parts of the economy have
come under organized-crime influence and
control and of course originally the
markets so to speak that organized crime
was involved in where the so-called
markets of Vice prostitution bootlegging
gambling narcotics etc and out of that
this of course all started back as early
as the 1920s and labor racketeering also
extortion and as the the mores and
morals of the country changed of course
a lot of vices became legalized so to
speak such as the liquor industry and in
turn organized crime became legitimized
and began to move if you take the word
vice and kind of turn it on its head you
come up with the word leisure and in a
way that the two are synonymous and what
has happened is that organized crime has
become the dominant economic force in
the leisure industry in the United
States and to give you some examples all
of which can be backed up by documents
and later on I can go into specifics if
people are interested if you look at
hotels resorts real estate developments
entertainment sports the distribution
and servicing for example trucking and
you know selling of supplies to hotels
and restaurants and and the unions which
do this kind of work especially the
Teamsters union but also the culinary
Workers Union the hotel and service the
bartenders Union motion picture
projectors unions there's just a whole
history of mob infiltration and
penetration of these industries so what
we have is the involvement of organized
crime into a legit legit
economic and business entity in the
United States over a period of twenty
twenty-five years now concomitant Li if
we take a look at the economy of the
United States over the last 25 years we
discover that that well we have what's
known as the age of affluence or the age
of leisure or whatever you want to call
it but when you look at the figures you
discover that productivity industrial
productivity in this country the growth
of industrial productivity has declined
significantly especially in the last 15
years and and the the output of goods
has declined and what has increased the
course is services and and their
innumerable statistics government
statistics to back that up so what we
have is our economy is increasingly
characterized by a leisure affluence
surplus and of course I'm not trying to
draw a causal relationship I'm just
trying to demonstrate that organized
crime has significant control over
certain sectors of the economy and that
these sectors in turn are increasingly
important in the in the structure and
makeup of the American economy over the
last 25 years
now I'll do a little diversion on what
this means for the economy and inflation
and a few other things which are kind of
relevant today because our economy is
declined in its ability to make
productivity prota
productive goods and I'll cite one
statistic here in 1960 the United States
ranked first in in manufacturing output
of among all the Western nations in
Canada and by 1972 the United States
ranked last in those very same
statistics and there are many books
which document the decline of American
technology and ability to produce you
know basic industrial goods and and the
the corollary to this of course is that
we've produced a lot of paper paper
meaning securities money non-productive
goods it's not coincidental therefore
that the largest industry in the United
States is banking which is nothing more
than the facilitation and maneuvering a
manipulation of paper and if you want a
good background on this you might start
with the Businessweek issue of about two
months ago where they did a whole issue
on credit and demonstrated that the
economy is basically a paper economy and
that there's a trillion dollars in
credit in the United States and that the
the rise in credit is incredibly
alarming and has parallels to the 1920s
etc now if you know anything at all
about economics you realized that that's
nothing but a classical inflationary
situation because you have tons and tons
more money and very few goods and
anytime you have more money chasing
fewer goods you're going to have inflow
and so you have this structural
situation built into the economy over
the last 15-20 years now what I'd like
to do in terms of organized crime and
trying to get down to a little more
basics astute Auk about conglomerates as
a case study in this convergence we're
talking about again we're talking about
the rise of leisure and affluence and
surplus and paper as as the dominant
American characteristic and we're also
talking about the the rise in
penetration of organized crime within
this sector of the economy and I think
conglomerates really are a perfect case
study and crucible to to talk about
starting around the middle 60s
conglomerates became one of the dominant
economic forces in the United States and
in fact it can be shown that
conglomerates took away from basic
industry most of the equity financing in
this country which means that there was
no money available for basic industry to
expand and to keep up with other
economies that were for example West
Germany and Japan which made tremendous
capital investments into things like
steel and basic industries so now today
you're in a point where the United
States is so backward in a steel and the
technology of producing steel that it
can't compete in the international
market and again the conglomerates were
taking away all the financing because
banks and other sources of credit were
putting all kind of money into
conglomerates because they were you know
hot stocks and and through all kind of
phony accounting techniques creating
what looked to be a great glamor great
growth etc but again if you look at
conglomerates what they were creating
was a lot of paper and rather than bore
you with how it happens I'll refer
for you to a book called unaccountable
accounting by Abraham Brill Off which
shows how through the use of various
accounting techniques conglomerates did
nothing but produce paper unaccountable
accounting by Abraham Brill off be BR
ILO F F and also there's a book called
the go-go years by John Brooks which is
out in paperback and there's a quote in
there he's talking about one of the
conglomerates and what they were trying
to show for Wall Street was that they
could produce a lot of profits they
didn't care about goods he was talking
about a thing called national student
marketing which was a high-flying
conglomerate which eventually went
bankrupt but it's its stock went from
zero to 160 back down to zero and it
didn't do anything but create a lot of
paper profits now the important thing is
that organized crime has made
significant inroads into American
conglomerates and I'll name about half a
dozen rapid American corporation which
major component of which is Schenley
Industries which is in a liquor business
and which got started by a guy who was
involved in bootlegging with Meyer
Lansky one of the leading organized
crime figures and if you want
documentation on this you can go to the
New York State Legislative investigative
Commission and a number of other
references Gulf and Western which is of
course one of the major conglomerates
the United States I don't know two three
four billion dollars in assets I can't
keep track of it it buys up so many
companies that it's hard to keep track
now organized crime began to make
inroads in the Gulf and Western around
1966 and 67 with the acquisition of New
Jersey zinc and Paramount Pictures the
movie industry since the 1930s has been
controlled by organized crime the
genesis was the movie extortion
shakedown which took place in the late
1930s and for which a number of Capone
mobsters were convicted in 1943 in
federal court in New York and the mobs
influence over paramount and other movie
picture companies has not ceased now to
give you a little example of what Gulf
and Western got into through the
organized crime element in it around
1967 68 Gulf and Western created a
real-estate leisure division which was
headed by a guy named Phil Levin and
again there's evidence of his
involvement with organized crime and I
can give citations later I don't really
want to get bogged down on it and
through his activities Gulf and Western
bought a hotel in Acapulco called the
Acapulco towers which they bought it
from a group of investors many of whom
were involved with organized crime and
in 1970 there was a high-level organized
crime summit meeting held in Acapulco
and agents of the United States
government the Mexican government and a
whole bunch of other governments tailed
Meyer Meyer Lansky to this hotel where
he was hidden from this surveillance and
taken out of the country so that he
could lose his surveillance and all of
which was done at this hotel owned by
Gulf and Western and there were some
hearings into this by the Illinois
Racing Board in 1970 where they tried to
ask Charlie blue horn
was the head of gulf and western and
other officials in gulf and western
exactly how they got involved in all
this and the hearings are are worth
looking at and i'll just refer people to
them rather than go into them they're
other conglomerates parven doormen which
owned a whole bunch of las vegas casinos
among others iOS which first bernie
Cornfeld and then Robert Vesco managed
to steal hundreds of millions of dollars
from Commonwealth United is another
conglomerate which since has collapsed I
think it's important to note that when
these things collapse it isn't the
people a number of conglomerates and
other mob controlled businesses collapse
and that doesn't mean that they've lost
money in fact it means that they've made
money and that they've drained the money
out of the company and by the time it
collapses the people who are left
holding the bag are either creditors or
stockholders who have been brought in
long after there's a profit to be made a
part of and doorman is a classic example
and you know the stock on Parv and
doormen went from nothing to 140 back
down to nothing and if you look at who
made the killings and who got in and who
got out you'll see the pattern that I'm
talking about now it's not it's very
interesting that the three bank failures
that have taken place in this country so
far have all been connected to organized
crime I'm talking about the United
States National Bank in San Diego the
Franklin National Bank in New York and
the security National Bank in New York
and the modus operandi of organized
crime is to use companies to wash money
to gain money for their own ventures to
lend money to their friends and
associates and to drain money
and eventually many of these companies
go under but long after the money has
been taken out and and taken away and
bankruptcies are another example of how
money is drained away I don't want to
get bogged down again
now one other thing I want to talk about
is the is the relationship of corruption
to to all this I think that it's clear
that in the last 10 years there's been
an increase in the amount of corruption
both financial and political in the
United States and I think one of the
reasons that so is that the very nature
of the economy you know which is now
more made up of paper and manipulations
rather than basic industry and basic
goods lends itself to corruption and if
you take like a basic product like an
automobile or steel or some kind of raw
machinery or equipment it's very hard to
corrupt the product itself I mean
there's corruption that might take place
because you have to pay off somebody to
get this and get that etc but at least
there's a product that people buy on the
marketplace that has some useful social
productive use and there's a product but
when you when your product is is
creating paper or you know giving credit
or creating securities or loaning money
that process in and of itself is of
little social productive use and lends
itself by definition to corruption and
manipulation and speculation and all
kind of other things
now I guess I wanted to talk a little
bit about Swiss banks and laundering of
money and and where does all this money
go and how does it affect things and it
was organized crime who really perfected
in the late 1950s mostly through the
efforts of Meyer Lansky the ability to
to take large sums of money in disguise
both their receipt and their
disbursement and their transfer and one
of the ways it works is to oh you know
you need one one weak link in the system
which can disguise money and you've got
a laundry system and so all you need is
a bank or an institution somewhere that
won't reveal you know the entry or
disbursement of a fund of money and that
you can wash the money now I don't know
how familiar people are with Swiss banks
and their operations and Switzerland
isn't the only place that happens that
goes on in the Bahamas in Panama and
Luxembourg and Hong Kong and Beirut and
Cayman Islands and a whole slew of
places but if I can cite you a few
statistics you'll get an idea of how
much money we're talking about at a
Federal Reserve Bank a few years ago
estimated that there was over two
hundred billion dollars in trust held by
Swiss banks that doesn't include their
assets or deposits those are trusts and
again the estimates are usually low
because there's no real way to get a
on these kind of things and it's
interesting to note that the period of
time in which a lot of these vehicles
and a lot of these systems were set up
relates to the to the Cuban situation in
1959 or organized crime had significant
investments were paying off Batista
according to lucky Luciano's memoirs to
the tune of 300 million dollars that
Batista had secret in Swiss bank
accounts due to his collusion with
Lansky and Luciano as organized crime
saw the decline and fall of Batista
coming on they pulled out some of them
did in time and in 1959 a number of
banks were set up in Switzerland as a
means of facilitating the withdrawal out
of Cuba and one of the banks which was
set up has since been linked to the
finances of Richard Nixon and bebe
rebozo and later on in a question period
I can get into the whole investigation
by a special prosecutor's office into
Swiss bank accounts of Nixon and the
role of some of these banks but I wanted
to point out at this point that one of
the banks that was set up at that time
was in part a move by organized crime to
to set up these kind of entities and
begin to facilitate the movements of
money and I think the last thing I want
to say is is to point out that it's not
limited to organized crime the notion of
washing money the CIA through its basic
propriety holding company called the
Pacific Corporation which has 12 I think
20 thousand employees is the figure in
over 200 million dollars in assets
that's the basic entity which is CIA
uses to wash its money and corporations
so-called legitimate corporations if you
look at the Watergate hearings you'll
discover that I'm going to read you a
list of which corporations used which
kind of laundries to launder their
illegal campaign contributions Braniff
Airlines washed their money through
Panama Minnesota mining American
Airlines in Goodyear washed their money
through Swiss banks in Ashland oil also
Gulf resources washed their money
through Mexico Gulf oil washed their
money through the Bahamas and Northrop
corporation washed their money through
Luxembourg and these this is the
Watergate report on campaign financing
and if you want to find out how money is
washed and disguised you ought to read
those hearings and the appendix to the
hearings I just wanted to bring it up to
show how the the laundering of money is
used by just about all segments of the
economy that are interested in
disguising money and handling large sums
of money and that's I think that's
enough you know for now I'd rather
people like ask questions and we
[Music]
come together or something like
Castro is taking over
would that provide the humanists for an
action that extreme what sort of money
was inaudible the loss of Cuba yes I
think let's first of all look at the
general symbiosis between organized
crime and intelligence agencies and then
bring it back to the assassination in a
country in an area like the Caribbean
where there isn't much real this kind of
productive economy that Jeff is talking
about where a very large source of
income to the governments is tourism and
particularly hotels and casinos above
all the whole question of overthrowing a
government and replacing it with a new
government consolidating a government is
frequently tied in with the idea of
giving a casino license to somebody who
can handle it which usually means
organized crime because why is that
because if you open up a casino you
don't want to be stolen blind by card
sharks so you have to have people in
there who can police a casino nobody
does it better than the mob so I think
we have to put legitimate industry in
there too let's take Cuba back in the
30s for example there in the early 30s
there had been a revolution which looked
like it might go to the left it was cut
off by Batista who prevented that from
happening
Batista consolidated his position with
the help of Meyer Lansky and the u.s.
industry which were worried about a move
to the left
helped out by for example it was the
National City Bank which owned the
racetrack in Havana and they leased it
to Meyer Lansky a lot of money was tied
up in some of the hotels where Lansky
also got the casinos or his brother Jake
Lansky got the casinos all of that is
true even before you have a CIA in the
post-war period where there's a lot of
change
over in both sides you frequently find
organized crime on both sides and may I
say left and right and you frequently
also find the CIA on both sides left and
right I think for example that Bosh in
the Dominican Republic
was overthrown with the help of US
intelligence but it may be that he was
also put into power with the help of US
intelligence and on both sides it's
significant I think that bashas first
fall from power in 1963 which is now the
year we're talking about came shortly
after he had Oh finally awarded an
important casino license which various
mafia groups were competing for he had
left one mafia group happy he had left
some other mafia groups unhappy and
whatever happened within a couple of
months he was out of power the CIA I
think have to keep track of all of this
if there were people in the CIA who were
trying to consolidate the regime of
Bosch they know that the economy is very
shaky they know that the local
industrialists are really opposed to him
they know what's going on on the casino
side we also know that Frank Fiorini who
was in Watergate had originally been
helping out in a minor way to get castro
into power and initially after Castro
took over power in 1959 in Cuba the man
that he put in charge of his casino
operations was you've guessed it Frank
fiorini
and then later on when the CIA is made
up its mind that it wants to get those
people out
they also recruit for the Bay of Pigs
Cubans who have been involved in various
kinds of crime activities why because
they're powerful muscle they know they
know how to kill they know how to do
things and it's a matter of fact that
Cubans in the narcotics business were
recruited by the CIA for the Bay of Pigs
and it's becoming more and more
documented
that after the failure of the Bay of
Pigs the Cubans continued in their
rather expensive anti-castro activities
with some support and some help from US
intelligence agencies but also financing
it on their own by continuing in the
smuggling of narcotics so that we've had
quite a few rather prominent Bay of Pigs
Cubans who have been arrested in the
last five years for narcotics operations
the number three man in the Bay of Pigs
is being arrested I said last night that
our team is people were leaking stories
about Oswald the man they leaked to
Fernando Pena bas Bay of Pigs veteran
very active circulating stories about
Lee Harvey Oswald and he's interesting
because he also circulated stories about
sirhan sirhan and he's now in the
federal penitentiary free smuggling
something like eight and a half pounds
of cocaine into this country and that's
a lot of money when you're talking about
pounds of cocaine so is that clear that
the CIA uses the the finances and the
muscle of organized crime for political
purposes in places like the Caribbean I
originally came into this because the
same thing was going on in the Far East
and Vietnam where opium and heroin of
anything are even more important in in
Southeast Asia than they are in the
Caribbean though historically very
important in both areas
now does that does that answer your
question
I could
is there documentation
an involvement of these interests in the
community
I have to repeat a bit of what I sang
last night yes there was in 1963 a joint
CIA dia operation against Castro and
they were using the same Cubans they
were particularly using the martini
crowd they were using something called
the MDC the momento democratic
Christiano which by 1963 was not very
democratic and not very Christian it was
essentially the so-called Batista family
has nothing to do with the dictator
Batista but with a very prominent
financial family in Cuba one of the
richest families in Cuba Agustin Batista
who was the financial backer of the MDC
and his brother laureano Batista who was
the director of covert operations for
the MDC they had a training camp in New
Orleans the time that Oswald visited
there brandy I knew about it brain gaze
first reaction to Oswald was that he was
trying to infiltrate the MDC camp the
man in charge of operations the MDC camp
was a man called Victor panicky who was
we know from other sources Frank fury
knees top Cuban back in the in the 1959
period operating in the Havana
underground and that course had a common
interest against Castro Castro cleaned
up the economy he got the gangsters out
he had a regulated economy and that is
equally repugnant to organized crime on
the one hand an established American
industry and Finance on the other so you
have a real coalition there against
Castro and now the last part of the
question I think we could talk about but
maybe Jeff wants to say something about
the general picture before
really focused on the Kennedy
assassination
I don't have that much data of a
specific nature I think that it's
obvious in a general way I've shown how
organized crime and people around that
are involved in the movements of huge
sums of money internationally and given
one of the the CIA's basic functions
they're obviously interested in the
movement of large sums of money
internationally because it has
tremendous political and economic
ramifications the same thing can be said
about the international movement of
narcotics and the same thing can be said
about the need especially in the
Caribbean as Peters talking about the
need for political stability as they
call it and organized crime has that
same need so in a general way there's an
obvious overlap and in a way it's no
different than any other major united
states corporation which collaborates
with the CIA an international you know
financial and political you know like
ITT and Chile and the CIA as a case
study and you can draw the same line
between that and organized crime the CIA
and the Dominican Republic Cuba you know
etc it's it's the same needs in the same
commonality of interests that draw them
together